Add visualization section (#466)
snowplow/documentation: docs/visualizing-your-data/snowplow-web/v1/index.md

---
title: "Marketing Dashboard Templates (v1)"
date: '2023-06-01'
sidebar_position: 0
---
```mdx-code-block
import Tabs from '@theme/Tabs';
import TabItem from '@theme/TabItem';
import ThemedImage from '@theme/ThemedImage';
```

## Introduction

This guide is written to introduce you to the dashboard templates designed for visualising your derived tables produced by the **snowplow-web** dbt package. It will show you how to get started and what each dashboard represents.

> 

Reviewer: Link to the package docs. I'd also maybe callout here that these are meant to get people started, we don't cover how to customise or add new things etc?

## Setup

Pick your preferred BI tool and access the templates here:

- PowerBI
- Tableau
- Streamlit
- Preset

<Tabs groupId="dashboards" queryString>

<TabItem value="PowerBI" label="PowerBI">

### Connect your dataset

For performance reasons the PowerBI template is designed to retrieve only the data that is needed for the visualizations with the aggregations done on the database side (15 in total). Each query is set up with a list of connection parameters so that you only have to change them once. To do this go to *Transform Data / Edit parameters* and change the following to yours:

`Server / Database / Role / Schema`

Once you made the changes you will need to refresh the data by clicking the *Refresh* icon on the *Home* ribbon when in the *Report view*.

### Prefilter your data

#### App id filter

In case you would need to filter on a specific app_id, we have provided two parameters you can utilise for this purpose:

`App_id_1 / App_id_2`

> You can add more, of course, if needed, but then this would have to be changed for all queries, similar to what has been done before.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
You can of course add more, if needed, but these also need to be added to all queries, similar to the existing filters.

#### Time filters

The dashboard by design works with the most likely use case that it needs to display the last x number of days. You can change the `LastXDay` parameter to any of the default values (1, 7, 28, 30, 90) or add more, if you need to. This will ensure that the data is filtered for each of the visualizations.

Lastly there are two more parameters, the `Start Year / End Year` which control the dimDate table, it should be set to cover a period you need for the duration of your reporting so you would only need to set it up once.

Each of these parameters get updated once you refresh your database and are exposed in the Home page. There is a field called `Last Refreshed` which always show you the last time the queries were updated, which might come in handy for users to see.

</TabItem>

<TabItem value="Tableau" label="Tableau">

</TabItem>

<TabItem value="Streamlit" label="Streamlit">

There are a few ways you can run the application:
  1. [locally](#1-run-it-locally)
  1. [Steamlit on Snowflake](#2-run-it-on-streamlit-on-snowflake)
  1. [Streamlit cloud](#3-run-it-on-streamlits-cloud)

### 1. Run it locally

> 

Reviewer: Can you make each of these collapsible fields instead?

  8. Click Edit to create your application.

#### Step 2: Install required packages:
  [PUT](https://docs.snowflake.com/en/sql-reference/sql/put) the [environment.yml](/environment.yml) file to the stage location specified by the `STREAMLIT_ROOT_LOCATION` parameter of the Streamlit object:
  ```
  $ SELECT STREAMLIT_ROOT_LOCATION FROM <database>.INFORMATION_SCHEMA.STREAMLITS;

  > <database>.<schema>."<appname> (Stage)"
  ```
  ```
  PUT file:///<full_path>/environment.yml '@<database>.<schema>."<appname> (Stage)"' AUTO_COMPRESS=FALSE OVERWRITE=TRUE;
  ```

#### Step 4: Provide the geojson [file](/countries.geo.json) that contains the country information required to render the choropleth map:
  ```
  PUT file:///<full_path>/countries.geo.json '@<database>.<schema>."<appname> (Stage)"' AUTO_COMPRESS=FALSE OVERWRITE=TRUE;
  ```

#### Step 5: Copy the code from [snowplow.py](/snowplow.py) inside the editor

and Click `Run`

### 3. Run it on Streamlit's cloud

Follow the instruction on [https://streamlit.io/cloud](https://streamlit.io/cloud)

</TabItem>

<TabItem value="Preset" label="Preset">

</TabItem>

</Tabs>

## Dashboards

### Acquisition Overview

> The **Acquisition Overview** aims at updating you about the website traffic with a breakdown by marketing channels.

Reviewer: Be more confident in our dashboards!
```suggestion
The **Acquisition Overview** provides an overview on the website traffic, with a breakdown by marketing channels.
```

There is also a distinction between `New Users` who have not previously had a session on the website (domain_sessionidx=1) and `Existing users` who have a session with domain_sessionidx > 1.

> 

Reviewer: make these code type filters backticked?

Reviewer: Sorry this wasn't very clear, I meant the bits like `domain_sessionidx=1` should also be backticked maybe?

<Tabs groupId="dashboards" queryString>

<TabItem value="PowerBI" label="PowerBI">

![](images/PBI_AO.png)

</TabItem>

<TabItem value="Tableau" label="Tableau">

![](images/T_AO.png)

</TabItem>

<TabItem value="Streamlit" label="Streamlit">

</TabItem>

<TabItem value="Preset" label="Preset">

![](images/P_AO.png)

</TabItem>

</Tabs>

### User Acquisition
This dashboard is about **User Acquisition** which is effectively about what channels / methods were used to acquire new users.

Every visual is already filtered on new users only (domain_sessionidx = 1).

> 
> Metrics definitions:
> 
> **engaged_sessions** = count(case when engaged=True end)
> **engagement_rate** = engaged_sessions / count(distinct domain_sessionid)
> **conversion_count** =sum(cv__all_volume)
> **conversion_revenue** = sum(cv__all_total)
> 

Reviewer: ```suggestion

The metric are defined as:

- **engaged_sessions** = count(case when engaged=True end)
- **engagement_rate** = engaged_sessions / count(distinct domain_sessionid)
- **conversion_count** =sum(cv__all_volume)
- **conversion_revenue** = sum(cv__all_total)

```

<Tabs groupId="dashboards" queryString>

<TabItem value="PowerBI" label="PowerBI">

![](images/PBI_UA.png)

</TabItem>

<TabItem value="Tableau" label="Tableau">

![](images/T_UA.png)

</TabItem>

<TabItem value="Streamlit" label="Streamlit">

</TabItem>

<TabItem value="Preset" label="Preset">

![](images/P_UA.png)

</TabItem>

</Tabs>

### Traffic Acquisition

This dashboard is about **Traffic Acquisition** which aims at highlighting which channels are used to re-engage existing (returning) users.

> 

Reviewer: Terminology wise, are these different dashboards, or pages in the same dashboard?

Author: "and what each visualization view (= page / tab / dashboard depending on the tool) " - explain it at the beginning and call them view/page later on. I'm sure they will understand

> 

Reviewer: confidence

Every visual is already filtered on returning users only (domain_sessionidx =>1).

> 
> Metrics definitions:
> 
> **engaged_sessions** = count(case when engaged=True end)
> **engagement_rate** = engaged_sessions / count(distinct domain_sessionid)
> **conversion_count** =sum(cv__all_volume)
> **conversion_revenue** = sum(cv__all_total)
> 

Reviewer: ```suggestion

The metric are defined as:

- **engaged_sessions** = count(case when engaged=True end)
- **engagement_rate** = engaged_sessions / count(distinct domain_sessionid)
- **conversion_count** =sum(cv__all_volume)
- **conversion_revenue** = sum(cv__all_total)

```

<Tabs groupId="dashboards" queryString>

<TabItem value="PowerBI" label="PowerBI">

![](images/PBI_TA.png)

</TabItem>

<TabItem value="Tableau" label="Tableau">

![](images/T_TA.png)

</TabItem>

<TabItem value="Streamlit" label="Streamlit">

</TabItem>

<TabItem value="Preset" label="Preset">

![](images/P_TA.png)

</TabItem>

</Tabs>

### Entrance and Exit Points

A separate overview is dedicated for the top 10 Entrance and Exit points with a breakdown on new and returning users.

An `entrance point` is the first page URL within a session. Although the sessions table produces a field called first_page_url (first_page_url_scheme  || '://' || first_page_url_hist || first_page_url_path), for BI purposes a calculated field is being used on this dashboard to exclude GTM tags.

Similarly an `exit point` is the last page URL within a session. It is calculated using last_page_url_scheme  || '://' || last_page_url_host || last_page_url_path.

> 

Reviewer: I don't think we need to explain this in this much detail, it's probably enough to say we remove any query or fragment parts from the url.

<TabItem value="PowerBI" label="PowerBI">

![](images/PBI_EE.png)

</TabItem>

<TabItem value="Tableau" label="Tableau">

![](images/T_EE.png)

</TabItem>

<TabItem value="Streamlit" label="Streamlit">

</TabItem>

<TabItem value="Preset" label="Preset">

![](images/P_EE.png)

</TabItem>

</Tabs>

### Page Analytics

The **Page Analytics** dashboard is aimed at giving insight into how the visitors interact with your web page.

The `bounce rate` visualisation is essentially about the inverse of engagement rate, it shows the ratio of non-engaged sessions over the total sessions.

There is also a pivot heat map called the `Entrance vs exit points` which show the top 10 most visited first pages based on total session_id count and displays the total sessions where the session ended (from the same top 10 pages only).

<Tabs groupId="dashboards" queryString>

<TabItem value="PowerBI" label="PowerBI">

![](images/PBI_PA.png)

</TabItem>

<TabItem value="Tableau" label="Tableau">

![](images/T_PA.png)

</TabItem>

<TabItem value="Streamlit" label="Streamlit">

</TabItem>

<TabItem value="Preset" label="Preset">

![](images/P_PA.png)

</TabItem>

</Tabs>

## Customization

> 
> The templates are designed with the intention that they can be used out of the box, therefore we refrained from adding too much styling that might not fit a wide audience's taste but there are plenty of things you can do, depending on the tool to make it your own.
> 
> If you would like us to give you a more detailed guide on how you can do that you can request this and we could add a new Accelerator to cover this topic for you.
> 

Reviewer: At most I think maybe link here to the docs for each tool around themeing? Or even just their core docs site.

```suggestion

The templates are designed with the intention that they can be used out of the box, therefore we have only provided basic style and branding which we expect the user to further develop to make it their own.

```

Author: I realised I did not intend to phrase this around themes at all, that was just an example. Let me know if the rephrase works.

`YOUR_SERVER, YOUR_WAREHOUSE, YOUR_DATABASE, YOUR_SCHEMA, YOUR_USER, YOUR_ROLE`

Save the file.

In order for Tableau to accept the twbx format you have to select all files first and then compress it back to a zip to avoid an additional level of folder structure. Once done rename the extension back to `twbx` from `zip` and your file should be ready to be used.

### Prefilter your data

Once the file is uploaded to Tableau online or opened elsewhere you will be prompted to log in with your username and password. Once authenticated you can change the data source settings e.g. switch the live connection to an extract.

On the Home dashboard you will see a parameter called 'Last_x_day' which can be used to filter the number of days of data you would like the refresh to retrieve.

</TabItem>

<TabItem value="Streamlit" label="Streamlit">

### Preparing the enviroment to run the application

There are a few ways you can run the application:
  1. [locally](#1-run-it-locally)
  1. [Steamlit on Snowflake](#2-run-it-on-streamlit-on-snowflake)
  1. [Streamlit cloud](#3-run-it-on-streamlits-cloud)

<details>
<summary>#### 1. Run it locally)</summary>

> 

Reviewer: Extra bracket here, also headers don't work in summary blocks (you'd need to use a h4 tag but they still won't show in the sidebar), I'd probably remove the header and hyperlinked stuff and just keep the collapsible block.

`YOUR_SERVER, YOUR_WAREHOUSE, YOUR_DATABASE, YOUR_SCHEMA, YOUR_USER, YOUR_ROLE`

Save the file.

In order for Tableau to accept the twbx format you have to select all files first and then compress it back to a zip to avoid an additional level of folder structure. Once done rename the extension back to `twbx` from `zip` and your file should be ready to be used.

### Prefilter your data

Once the file is uploaded to Tableau online or opened elsewhere you will be prompted to log in with your username and password. Once authenticated you can change the data source settings e.g. switch the live connection to an extract.

On the Home dashboard you will see a parameter called 'Last_x_day' which can be used to filter the number of days of data you would like the refresh to retrieve.

</TabItem>

<TabItem value="Streamlit" label="Streamlit">

### Preparing the enviroment to run the application

There are a few ways you can run the application:
  1. [locally](#1-run-it-locally)
  1. [Steamlit on Snowflake](#2-run-it-on-streamlit-on-snowflake)
  1. [Streamlit cloud](#3-run-it-on-streamlits-cloud)

> 

Reviewer: Can delete these links now they are collapsible sections

## App_id filters

Users could also filter on app_ids. To change the default two items, replace appid1 and appid2:

    app_id1 = st.text_input("App ID:", key = 'appid1')
    app_id2 = st.text_input("App ID:", key = 'appid2')

</TabItem>

<TabItem value="Preset" label="Preset">

</TabItem>

</Tabs>

## Dashboards

### Acquisition Overview

The **Acquisition Overview** provides an overview on the website traffic, with a breakdown by marketing channels.

There is also a distinction between `New Users` who have not previously had a session on the website (`domain_sessionid = 1`) and `Existing users` who have a session with `domain_sessionidx > 1`.

<Tabs groupId="dashboards" queryString>

<TabItem value="PowerBI" label="PowerBI">

![](images/PBI_AO.png)

</TabItem>

<TabItem value="Tableau" label="Tableau">

![](images/T_AO.png)

</TabItem>

<TabItem value="Streamlit" label="Streamlit">

![](images/S_AO.png)

</TabItem>

<TabItem value="Preset" label="Preset">

![](images/P_AO.png)

</TabItem>

</Tabs>

### User Acquisition
This view is about **User Acquisition** which is effectively about what channels / methods were used to acquire new users.

> 

Reviewer: We're a little inconsistent in the first line of each section, we don't name the type above, here we use a view, below we use a page. I know they're the same thing but we should probably pick one and stick with it
